# endorsment protocol + dapp

The endorsement protocol provides a method to assign a global trust score to the participants of the endorsement network. The impact score represents the impact a participant has made on the network by sending or receiving endorsements. Based on this score, one can infer the trustworthiness of an entity.

## Addressing possible issues and threats

#### Anonymity
The reputation of a peer is associated with the public key hash of the account, i.e., the account identifier and not with the externally associated identity such as their IP address or a government-issued identity.

#### No profit to newcomers
A new participant cannot have a significant impact value right away. They start with an ignorant value (i.e., 0) and it takes more than one endorsement interactions (incoming and outgoing) to be considered for the computation of impact. After which, it takes several incoming and outgoing endorsement connections along with maintenance of several factors (i.e., ratio, TRP) to make a significant impact on the network. Thus, the model addresses the issue of "no profit to newcomers".

#### Minimal Overhead
This relates to minimal overhead in terms of storage, computation, infrastructure and message complexity. Thus, this factor is directly related to Ethereum as infrastructure and the execution of the endorsement contract on the blockchain. There is no limit to the length of data a transaction message (e.g., computation of impact) can hold but more data implies more gas fee since the amount of storage that every participant has to store increases. The cost of transaction fee is paid by the account that initiates the transaction.
Sending an endorsement to another account updates the state variables nEG and nER and logs the new endorser and endorsee address for the respective accounts. The computation of impact for a given entity A can be initiated by any participant (not just the account owner).

#### Robust to malicious collectives of peers
This factor is rather complex, and the current implementation of the endorsement protocol does not enforce any behavior to avoid it. However, the information available about an entity can be used, if needed to find out malicious nodes that explicitly interact within their group.
Consider a malicious collective of four nodes, ``M = {A,B,C,D}`` that endorses each other. The endorsement system maintains two sets of data for each participant, one that contains the list of endorsers, and other that contains the list of endorsees.
If A represents the list of endorsers and A′ represents the list of endorsees for the entity A, then, we can find the intersection of the sets A and A′ to find out the list of common entities in these two sets. The elements of this intersection set should represent the entities with whom A has the symmetric trust relation with.
```
A = {B,C,D}
A′ = {B,C,D}
A ∩ A′ = {B,C,D}
```
As we can see that the intersection set includes the same list as the list of endorsers and endorsees, it is most likely that these entities are forming a malicious collective to inflate the trust scores of each other. However, this does not provide enough information to infer that a node is malicious with certainty. We cannot ignore the possibility that they know each other and the endorsement interaction is an honest one. The characteristic of trust as being asymmetric does not invalidate the existence of the symmetric trust, i.e., A trusts B does not imply B has to trust A but it is entirely up to B if he trusts A, and only B knows if the trust relationship is an honest or malicious one.

The attributes of the endorsement protocol aim to provide enough information to infer trustworthiness of users and encourage trustworthy behavior while discouraging dishonest behavior is addressed by the endorsement system. The impact score associated with a participant can help to infer the trustworthiness of the participant in question. The contribution that a node can make on another node by sending out endorsements were limited by the consumable points (CP). Similarly, the ratio between incoming and outgoing endorsement connections had to be maintained for a significant impact value. As such, trust-worthy behavior was encouraged within the network by requiring nodes to maintain these values.

### Limitations
The value of trustworthiness assigned by the network is based on the aggregation of endorsement information among nodes only. For the reputation score to reflect higher accuracy and be useful in making decisions on real-world transactions, the score has to be continuously updated based on the transaction outcome. The update of score would require communication with the transaction network which can act as a feedback loop for the reputation score of the endorsement system. Based on the malicious behavior of a node on a transaction network (e.g., failed to deliver the product, shared inauthentic files, low response time, etc.) they can be penalized, and the total endorsement impact can be reduced accordingly in the endorsement system. The update of score would require implementation of a transaction network based on smart contracts (or existing transaction network with a method to communicate with them), devise of method for entities of transaction network to rate the transactions (e.g., 5 negative ratings on a transaction by an entity can be a measure of malicious node that can be sent to endorsement system) and a method of communication between transaction system and endorsement system to keep the feedback loop continuously run in an iterative fashion.

### Generalisation
The endorsement protocol is supposed to be a general model that allows entities to endorse each other (identity or the information associated with it) and aggregate these endorsement interactions to infer trustworthiness of associated identity. As such, any online interaction system (online commerce, file-sharing system, blog platforms) that requires inferring the trust- worthiness of its participating entities could use it. Generally, most of the transaction system have their native reputation model (e.g., the difference between positive and negative ratings to assign a reputation score). In such case, the platform-specific reputation system can provide more information to endorsement system for the score of entities. If the transaction system does not have any reputation system, they can leverage the endorsement system to allow its participants to endorse the information as presented about each other in the transaction system, e.g., if an entity A had many successful transactions with other entity B, then A can endorse B. Other platforms/use cases can also similarly use the endorsement system. A centralized transaction system can use the endorsement system that can offer transactions on a centralized server (for transaction speed or scalability) but use a decentralized and distributed reputation system, such as the endorsement model to compute the reputation scores of entities. Doing so will increase the reliability of the reputation data and users are more likely to trust the scores.